Experiment

1.1 No Physics loss with 700 epochs with training data from whole domain with 20 samples
1.2 Physics loss with 700 epochs with traing data from whole domain with 20 samples

Remarks: Seems like both have similar performance as it seems like there is enough data to capture the
complexity of the target function

1.3 No physics loss with 700 epochs with training data from whole domain with 10 samples
1.4 Physics loss with 700 epochs with traing data from whole domain with 10 samples

Remarks: Looks like the data is fit better with the added physics loss regularization as the data is
becoming more sparse

1.5 No physics loss with 700 epochs with training data from whole domain with 5 samples
1.6 Physics loss with 700 epochs with training data from whole domain with 5 samples (regularization of physics
loss with weight 0.01 rather than the earlier 0.0001)

Remarks: It seems like the physics loss can greatly improve the learning when the weight is increased,
in earlier experiments it seemed when the weight was too large that there would be underfitting as the
physics loss would prevent the model from fitting the data, however, with less data, it seems like this is less
of a factor and the regularization helps fit the data better

Comments on logistic regression experiments: We see that the activation function is pivotal when training PINNs.
When we first were developing the algorithm, we used the tanh activation function which led to the results below with
physics loss included

Experiment 1.7: In this experiment we used the tanh activation function and as can be seen here we have that the
model is not capable of learning. We believe this might be because the model gets stuck at a local optimum. We also think
that this might be because of the phenomenon of vanishing gradients problem. This occurs when the gradient becomes extremely
small in magnitude and thus the update does almost nothing.

We saw that the ReLU function worked much better and did not encounter the same vanishing gradients problem.

Experiment 1.8 In this experiment we tried to reduce the domain the samples were taken on and its effects on the PINNs solution
In order to get this we needed to greatly increase the number of epochs to 20000. However, we can see that the solution is much less 
accurate, it still generally knows to decrease slope after a certain point.

Experiment 1.9 This is the same experiment at 1.8 but in this one we only did data loss. Here after 20000 epochs we have that
the neural network, not having any information about the underlying differential equation, just follows the trend of the data
and keeps increasing.

Experiment 1.10 We see do the same experiment as 1.9 but in this case the domain the samples are taken from is even smaller.
We observe similar behavior to 1.9.

Experiment 1.11 Same as 1.10 except with physics loss included. Again we see that the learned solution is not very accurate but
the algorithm at least knows to reduce slope.

Other comments: From this case we see that the model is much harder to build and also much slower than classical methods
for solving the same problem. However, one advantage of this PINNs method is that once the model is trained you are able to
recalculate the predicted value for any time value you want. In contrast, with traditional methods, in order to get the value of a point
that is not on the mesh you initially set up, you need to make an entirely new mesh and start over. However, it seems like in order to actually used
this PINNs method in practice you would want to solve a much more complex problem which is harder for traditional methods to solve. However, as this is
only a pedagogical project we stick to relatively simple ODEs.

2 Experiments for Projectile Motion with demonstrating

These are the experiments that we walk students through in our problem set since this turned out to be the problem that our PINNs algorithm was able to solve most accurately.

The code is in pset_nn_sol.jpeg and the results for the neural network without physics loss is in pset_nn_sol.jpeg.
The results for the PINNs algorithm are in pset_PINN_sol.jpeg. We see that the neural network with only data loss did not output
a physically feasible flight path, however, we see that the PINNs was able to get a fairly accurate flight path with relatively few
epochs.


Next, we generalize to a more complex nonlinear ODE, the Lotka-Volterra Equation which models the population dynamics of an ecosystem consisting of
a prey species and a predator species. The draft for the code for this is located in our pred_prey_PINN.ipynb
file, however, this code still needs some tuning with the parameters as we wish to get better results.
We plan on doing similar experiments to the above with this ODE. We also want to do an experiment demonstrating the ability of 
PINNs to solve inverse problems.